Create sum.md (#2412)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/built-in-functions/terms/sum/sum.md

---
Title: 'sum()'
Description: 'Takes in an iterable object, such as a list or tuple, and returns the sum of all elements.'
Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Iterators'
  - 'Lists'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/analyze-data-with-python'
---

Takes in an iterable object, such as a list or tuple, and returns the sum of all elements.

## Syntax

> ```python

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```pseudo
````
We generally use ` ```pseudo ` code blocks for syntax.

sum(iterable, start=0)
```

> 

Reviewer: We would like a sentence after the syntax code block explaining what `iterable` and `start` are.

Author: I have added the following:

**iterable:** is an object capable of returning its elements one at a time
for example a list, tuple or dictionary.

**start:** is a number added to the sum of the numbers in the iterable.

> ## Example 1

Reviewer: For all the examples can we replace the comment with the output with a ` ```shell ` block illustrating the ouput. For example, after this first one have:

````
This example results in the following output:

```shell
15
```
````

Rather than a comment in the code.

Author: True, the comment seems a bit odd this is a much better solution!

Summing up the elements of a list:

```python
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

total = sum(numbers)

print(total) # Output: 15
```

## Example 2

Summing up the elements of a tuple:

```python
prices = (10.99, 5.99, 8.49)

total = sum(prices)

print(total)  # Output: 25.47
```

## Example 3

Using the `start` parameter to specify an initial value for the sum:

```python
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

total = sum(numbers, start=10)

print(total)  # Output: 25
```

> ## Example 4

Reviewer: For this one, can we make it a Codebyte? Change the header to `## Codebyte Example` and use a ` ```codebyte/python ` code block for the code. Also remove the output comment.

Summing up a list of strings (concatenation):

```python
words = ["Hello", " ", "World", "!"]

message = sum(words, start="")

print(message)  # Output: 'Hello World!'
```

> Note: The `sum()` function works with any iterable object that contains numbers or elements that can be added together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The `sum()` function works with any iterable object that contains numbers or elements that can be added together.
```

---
Title: 'sum()'
Description: 'Takes in an iterable object, such as a list or tuple, and returns the sum of all elements.'
Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Iterators'
  - 'Lists'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/analyze-data-with-python'
---

> Takes in an iterable object, such as a list or tuple, and returns the sum of all elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`sum()`## function takes in an iterable object, such as a list or tuple, and returns the sum of all elements.
```

## Syntax

```pseudo
sum(iterable, start=0)
```
- `iterable`: is an object capable of returning its elements one at a time for example a list, tuple, or dictionary.
- `start`: is a number added to the sum of the numbers in the iterable.

## Example 1

Summing up the elements of a list:

```python
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

total = sum(numbers)

print(total)
```

> This example results in the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This example results in the following output:

```

```shell
15
```

## Example 2

Summing up the elements of a tuple:

```python
prices = (10.99, 5.99, 8.49)

total = sum(prices)

print(total)
```

> This example results in the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This example results in the following output:

```

```shell
25.47
```

## Example 3

Using the `start` parameter to specify an initial value for the sum:

```codebyte/python
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

total = sum(numbers, start=10)

print(total)
```

> This example results in the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This example results in the following output:

```

---
Title: 'sum()'
Description: 'Takes in an iterable object, such as a list or tuple, and returns the sum of all elements.'
Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Iterators'
  - 'Lists'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/analyze-data-with-python'
---

Takes in an iterable object, such as a list or tuple, and returns the sum of all elements.

## Syntax

```pseudo
sum(iterable, start=0)
```

> **iterable:** is an object capable of returning its elements one at a time

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `iterable`: is an object capable of returning its elements one at a time for example a list, tuple, or dictionary.
```

> for example a list, tuple or dictionary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Put this on prior line.

> 

Reviewer: Remove empty line between elements of a bulleted list.

> **start:** is a number added to the sum of the numbers in the iterable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `start`: is a number added to the sum of the numbers in the iterable.
```

> ## Example 1

Reviewer: Before the ` ```shell ` blocks can we add an introductory sentence such as:

```
This example results in the following output:
```

Author: @SSwiniarski I have added your changes and also the intro sentence for the  shell blocks

---
Title: 'sum()'
Description: 'Takes in an iterable object, such as a list or tuple, and returns the sum of all elements.'
Subjects:
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags:
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Iterators'
  - 'Lists'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/analyze-data-with-python'
---

The **`sum()`** function takes in an iterable object, such as a list or tuple, and returns the sum of all elements.

## Syntax

```pseudo
sum(iterable, start=0)

> ```

Reviewer 2: add a space between the syntax and the parameters

> - `iterable`: is an object capable of returning its elements one at a time for example a list, tuple, or dictionary.
> - `start`: is a number added to the sum of the numbers in the iterable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `iterable`: An object capable of returning its elements one at a time such as a list, tuple, or dictionary.
- `start`: A number added to the sum of the numbers in the iterable.
```

## Example 1

Summing up the elements of a list:

```python
numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

total = sum(numbers)

print(total)
```

This example results in the following output:

```shell
15
```

## Example 2

Summing up the elements of a tuple:

```python
prices = (10.99, 5.99, 8.49)

total = sum(prices)

print(total)
```

This example results in the following output:

```shell
25.47
```

## Example 3

Using the `start` parameter to specify an initial value for the sum:

> ```codebyte/python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```python
```

numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]

> total = sum(numbers, start=10)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
total = sum(numbers, 10)
```

print(total)
```

This example results in the following output:

```shell
25
```

## Codebyte Example

> Summing up a list of strings (concatenation):

Reviewer 2: Not sure that I agree with the framing of this final example. The introductory sentence suggests that concatenation is possible, but it isn't with this function. I think it would be better to use example three as the codebyte and you can put the note regarding appropriate data types in the section with parameters.

Author: You are right, I changed this final example for one where a list of lists with integers is concatenated.

```codebyte/python
num_lists = [[1, 2, 3], [4, 6, 8]]

> message = sum(num_lists, start=[])
> 
> print(message)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
combined_list = sum(num_lists, [])

print(combined_list)
```
